---
title: "ECON 3040 - Introduction to Econometrics"
permalink: /3040/
excerpt: "ECON 3040 Home"
last_modified_at:
toc: false
---

This is the course website for ECON 3040.

**The final** is on April 18th, 1:30pm, in University College Great Hall. Bring a calculator, pens/pencils, and your student ID.
{: .notice--danger}

[The formula sheet for the final is available here.](https://rtgodwin.com/3040/exams/formula.pdf) I will provide you with this formula sheet at the exam.
{: .notice--info}

**The fourth (and final) assignment** is due on April 12th. The answer key will be released on the 15th. After that, I will not be able to accept late assignments.
{: .notice--danger}

## Final exam review topics for the lecture on April 11th

### Chapter 6
- Why we need multiple "X" variables - OVB
- OVB: what it is, when it happens, and why
  * house price/fireplace example
- How the formula for the $b$ are obtained
- Interpreting the $\beta$
Issues that arise in the multiple regression model:
- No perfect multicollinearity / DVT
  * define it
  * examples: different units/gender dummy/location dummy
- Imperfect multicollinearity - basic definition and consequences
- $R^2$ no longer works
  * explain why
- $\bar{R}^2$ used instead
  * explain why it works

### Chapter 7
- Joint hypothesis test
- t-test can't be used - explain why
- F-test
- Restricted/unrestricted models
- Why the F-test formula with $R^2_U$ and $R^2_R$ makes sense
- Identifying models under $H_0$ and $H_A$
- CIs don't extend well for joint hypothesis tests (confidence sets)
- Overall F-test
- How/why to eliminate variables from a model (model selection/building)
- Presenting models in tables

### Chapter 8
- Linear vs. non-linear effect
- Consequences of missing a non-linear effect
- Polynomial regressionn model
  * Determine "r"
  * Interpret the $b$s by predicting values ($\hat{y}$)
- Logs
  * Can "linearize" exponential growth (GDP)
  * Can "linearize" multiplicative models (Cobb-Douglas)
  * approximate percentage changes
  * 3 configurations: lin-log, log-lin, log-log
  * Intepretations of the $\beta$ in these three configurations
- Interaction terms
  * $D \times X$ allows for different slopes/lines for different groups
  * Test for differences between groups
- DiD
  * minimum wage example
  * fundamental problem of causal inference
  * DiD estimator is the $b$ on the dummy-dummy interaction
  * Picture
- Dummy-dummy interactions
  * different effect for different groups

### Chapter 9
- Hetroskedasticity vs. homoskedasticity
- What heterosked. and homosked. look like in a plot
- Implications of heteroskedasticity
- Fix for heterosked.
  * Robust standard errors
- Testing for het.

### Chapter 10
- Missing variable problem
- Instrument, $z$, has two properties
- IV/2SLS - describe the two stages
- wage/education example
- demand example

## Textbook
[I wrote the textbook we'll use and it's available here.](https://rtgodwin.com/introeconometrics.pdf)

I will be making edits and revisions to the textbook this semester.
{: .notice--danger}

## Announcements

**The first few lectures will proceed as follows:**  
Lecture 1: Introduce the course, and R (which will be used for data analysis). This covers chapter 1 of the textbook.  
Lecture 2: Chapter 2 - probability review.  
Lecture 3: finish Chapter 2, start Chapter 3 - statistics review.  
Lecture 4: finish Chapter 3.  

The review lectures will move very quickly, and cover a lot of material.
{: .notice--info}

**The first assignment** is due on January 24th.
{: .notice--danger}
