# The Dock Ward

The Docks Ward is widely reputed as one of the most unsavory and dangerous locations in all of Waterdeep. It’s Home to bawdy taverns, shady shops and dark, winding alleyways in which all manner of ruffians and Ne’er-do-wells lurk, waiting to relieve unsuspecting passersby of their valuables. The poorest residents of Waterdeep live here, though, say what you will, the people work harder under harsher conditions than anywhere else in the city. Warehouses, poorhouses and tenements dominate the district, with a majority of the residents living in Mistshore, a collective of lean-to’s, piers and derelict ship hulls lashed together to form a ramshackle neighborhood. As you walk south from the Yawning Portal down Snail Street, a stiff, unseasonably cold ocean breeze rolls over you off the surf from Waterdeep Harbor, a breeze tinged with hints of salt, desperation and excrement. The streets are steep and narrow, signs and guideposts are few and far between and, with the sun having set by now, illumination is scant, most of the streetlamps appearing to have been long shattered and their components pilfered.

# The North Ward

The North Ward is the “old money” section of town. Contrasting with the raucous extravagance of the nearby Sea Ward, the North Ward, home to nobles and other prosperous longtime denizens of the city, is a quiet, polite neighborhood, with even its taverns and stores tending to cater towards a more refined class of clientele. All residents here usually have enough coin to spare to hire a servant or two, and those who can’t make every effort to disguise that fact. The most fabulous section of the Ward is Cliffside, an area in which the cliffs of the plateau sits upon are so steep that the city walls pass it over, leaving a glorious view of the plains below. In addition to the quiet bustle of tradespeople and the comings and goings of the noble families, the North Ward is also home to the Holyhands House, a temple dedicated to the worship of all gods, regardless of pantheon, race or alignment, as well as the Hospice of St Lauspenn, a hospital which serves a dual purpose as a temple to Ilmater, god of the Oppressed and Downtrodden.

# The Sea Ward

In contrast to the neighboring North Ward, the Sea Ward has no qualms about flaunting its luxury. A ward of decadence and splendor, the Sea Ward stands atop the high point of Mt Waterdeep. In olden times, pirates and warlords built magnificent fortresses atop the mountain; their remains still stand today, incorporated into the palatial homes of the rich and powerful of Waterdeep. The ward is home to the Field of Triumph, an enormous outdoor stadium used for sporting events and public declarations by the Open Lord of Waterdeep. Adjacent to the Field is the House of Heroes, the largest temple in Waterdeep, dedicated to Tempus, God of War. Indeed, the Sea Ward is replete with places of worship for all manner of divinity: The House of Wonder, the foremost temple in all Faerun devoted to Mystra, Goddess of Magic; The beautiful House of the Moon, for the Goddess Selune, and the House of Inspired Hands, worshipping Gond, the god of Craft, to name only a few. In addition, some say that lurking somewhere in the Sea Ward is the Infamous Blue Alley, a street lined with Blue Tiles said to claim the life of anyone caught walking it after dark.

# The Castle Ward

Located directly south of the Sea Ward, the Castle Ward is the political and military heart of Waterdeep. Here, Castle Waterdeep sits atop an enormous bluff overlooking the bay; the royalty of Waterdeep does not reside here, having lived in Piergeiron’s Palace for well over a century, but the Castle still stands as a bastion of last defense should the city ever be attacked. Indeed long-time residents joke that, even come the end of time, the old castle will still be standing. In addition to all manner of courts and magistrates who make their office in the Castle Ward, the ward is also home to Blackstaff tower, stronghold of the Blackstaff, the military leader of the city. Passersby tend to avoid their gaze of the tower, as looking at it for too long can leave the viewer feeling mildly queasy and with the distinctly disquieting sensation of being watched. Finally, two of Waterdeep’s most beloved residents make their home in the Castle Ward. Mirt and Durnan are long time friends who, as much younger men, braved the Depths of Undermountain, then called The Well, at a time when the dungeon was naught more than a death sentence for the worst criminals of the city. The two, descending of their own free will and returning laden with treasure and wealth, each built a life for themself: Mirt constructed his famous Mansion which stands to this day over 100 years later, and Durnan constructed the Yawning Portal around the opening to Undermountain, so that he might serve as its self-appointed warden and guardian.

# The Trades Ward

If the Castle Ward is the political heart of Waterdeep, then the Trades Ward to the east is its undisputed economic head. While The Market, technically the largest open marketspace in the city, is located in the Castle Ward, the Trades Ward itself thrums with the economic buzz of an independent mercantile town in its own right, nearly thrice the size of the Market. Unlike other areas of the city, the Trades Ward never truly sleeps; there is always the hustle and bustle of business to be done, be it on the streets proper or in the hundreds of balcony walkways that can run the length of blocks and stretch as much as 5 stories into the air. Many of the guilds make their home here, and it’s considered a right of passage for an aspiring tradesperson to make their way to the Ward to pay their respect. The Watch maintains a strict presence in this part of the city, both to keep control of the fiery passions that can come with the pursuit of economic success, as well as to clamp down on a surprisingly resilient black market trade run by the Zhentarim. One part of the ward always remains nearly empty: The Court of the White Bull. Once the home of a vibrant tavern named for an albino bull born in the field, the Court of the White Bull was the site of an infamous wizard duel between Thongalar the Miighty and Shile Rauretilar. It is said the battle was so intense that it slew Shile and all his attending apprentices and tore a hole in the Weave of magic itself so mighty that Azuth, God of Wizardry, had to work powerful magic to simply close the hole. To this day, magic behaves erratically in the Court, and it is forbidden to cast spells in the area.

# The Southern Ward

It is always good knowledge to have when travelling in Waterdeep to never refer to the Southern Ward as “The South Ward”. The Waterdhavian are peculiar about this, and you will be corrected or thought a fool. Indeed, the name of the Ward refers to its status as a haven for foreigners to Waterdeep, primarily from the South. The Southern Ward hosts the closest to what could be called a “middle class” in Waterdeep, made up primarily of travelling merchants who have come to settle in Waterdeep. It's a common held belief that everybody living in the Southern Ward can trace their ancestry outside the city. Notable sights include the Dancing Court, home to a feasthall named the Jade Dancer, for an enormous Stone Golem made of Jade who will animate to amuse and delight patrons, as well as serve as a bouncer. Finally, every full moon the Dancing Court pays host to the Moon Sphere, a sphere of silvery light which appears as the moon rises. Any who enter the sphere are capable of flight, which has led to the development of a dancing style unique to the city, a style which is jealously guarded from outsiders

# The City of the Dead

If the Castle Ward is the city’s heart, and the Trades Ward its mind, then the City of the Dead is its living soul. The City of the Dead is no mere cemetery; it is an enormous park full of grassy hills, beautiful flowers, dizzying architecture and carefully curated landscaping. The practice of burying the dead was abandoned long ago in Waterdeep in favor of entombing them in Mausoleums (It’s said that many of the major ones here are connected to an extra-dimensional space reserved for mourners. Those who can afford it memorialize the departed with statues, resulting in an enormous open-air museum of all manner of spectacular sculpting, chief among them The Warriors’ Monument, depicting a 60 foot relief of men and women combating all manner of foul creature as water gushes from their wounds in a truly moving display. As a final note, every night as the sun sets, hundreds of Driftglobe will float into the City of the Dead from all over Waterdeep. They will remain there till morning, at which time they return whence they came. Nobody is quite sure why they do this or what purpose they serve, but it seeks to add a little character to a ward already rich in it.

# The Field Ward

While technically not an official ward of the city, the Field Ward is still considered part of the city. Originally a slaughtering ground during times of war, in the past few decades the area has become a melting pot of various cultures as refugees of various calamities including the Spellplague and the Destruction of Neverwinter have settled their caravans outside the city walls. The Watch does not patrol here, so crimes frequently go unsolved as the City Guard tend not to leave their positions atop the wall. A shortage of functioning roads or a working sewer system means that this area is grimy, dank and home to the poorest and most desperate, as well as those who prey upon them. Aside from the leatherworks, butchers and smokehouses which make their home here, having been driven out of the city proper for being to noxious, the only place truly worth visiting is Endshift Tavern.

# The Undercliff

Directly east of the city and Mt Waterdeep is a region known in the city as Undercliff. An area of rolling grassland and small wooded copses, this area is primarily home to gnomes and halflings who dedicate themselves to the trades of farming and animal husbandry; foremost among these is the Snobeedle Orchard and Meadery, who help supply the city taverns with all manners of meads and brews. The City Guard and Watch each have their own presence here outside the city: The Marching Grounds serve as a training camp for the Guard while the Watch maintains Amendsfarm, a penal colony where those convicted of minor offenses in the city work of their debt to society. Finally, two noble families have settled estates here outside the walls: The Amcathra, who use the open land to house and train Amphailian Horses, reputed as the finest in all the land, as well as the Hothemer family, who appreciate the freedom from Waterdeep’s Auditors to facilitate their overland trade empire.
